In the last video,
you learned about the soft master,
the softmax activation function.
In this video, you deepen your
understanding of softmax classification,
and also learn how the training
model that uses a softmax layer.
Recall our earlier example where
the output layer computes z[L] as follows.
So we have four classes,
c = 4 then z[L] can be (4,1) dimensional
vector and we said we compute t
which is this temporary variable that
performs element y's exponentiation.
And then finally, if the activation
function for your output layer,
g[L] is the softmax activation function,
then your outputs will be this.
It's basically taking the temporarily
variable t and normalizing it to sum to 1.
So this then becomes a(L).
So you notice that in the z vector,
the biggest element was 5, and
the biggest probability ends up
being this first probability.
The name softmax comes from
contrasting it to what's called a hard
max which would have taken the vector
Z and matched it to this vector.
So hard max function will look at
the elements of Z and just put a 1 in
the position of the biggest element
of Z and then 0s everywhere else.
And so this is a very hard max where
the biggest element gets a output of 1 and
everything else gets an output of 0.
Whereas in contrast,
a softmax is a more gentle mapping
from Z to these probabilities.
So, I'm not sure if this is a great name
but at least, that was the intuition
behind why we call it a softmax,
all this in contrast to the hard max.
And one thing I didn't really show but had
alluded to is that softmax regression or
the softmax identification function
generalizes the logistic activation
function to C classes rather
than just two classes.
And it turns out that if C = 2,
then softmax with
C = 2 essentially reduces
to logistic regression.
And I'm not going to prove this in
this video but the rough outline for
the proof is that if C = 2 and
if you apply softmax,
then the output layer, a[L],
will output two numbers if C = 2,
so maybe it outputs 0.842 and
0.158, right?
And these two numbers
always have to sum to 1.
And because these two numbers always have
to sum to 1, they're actually redundant.
And maybe you don't need to
bother to compute two of them,
maybe you just need to
compute one of them.
And it turns out that the way you end
up computing that number reduces to
the way that logistic regression
is computing its single output.
So that wasn't much of a proof but
the takeaway from this is that softmax
regression is a generalization of logistic
regression to more than two classes.
Now let's look at how you would
actually train a neural network
with a softmax output layer.
So in particular,
let's define the loss functions you
use to train your neural network.
Let's take an example.
Let's see of an example in your
training set where the target output,
the ground true label is 0 1 0 0.
So the example from the previous video,
this means that this is an image of
a cat because it falls into Class 1.
And now let's say that your neural network
is currently outputting y hat equals,
so y hat would be a vector
probability is equal to sum to 1.
0.1, 0.4, so you can check that sums to 1,
and this is going to be a[L].
So the neural network's not doing very
well in this example because this is
actually a cat and assigned only
a 20% chance that this is a cat.
So didn't do very well in this example.
So what's the last function you would
want to use to train this neural network?
In softmax classification,
they'll ask me to produce this
negative sum of j=1 through 4.
And it's really sum from 1
to C in the general case.
We're going to just use 4 here,
of yj log y hat of j.
So let's look at our single example
above to better understand what happens.
Notice that in this example,
y1 = y3 = y4 = 0 because those are 0s and
only y2 = 1.
So if you look at this summation,
all of the terms with 0
values of yj were equal to 0.
And the only term you're left
with is -y2 log y hat 2,
because we use sum over the indices of j,
all the terms will end up 0,
except when j is equal to 2.
And because y2 = 1,
this is just -log y hat 2.
So what this means is that,
if your learning algorithm
is trying to make this small
because you use gradient descent to try
to reduce the loss on your training set.
Then the only way to make this
small is to make this small.
And the only way to do that is to
make y hat 2 as big as possible.
And these are probabilities, so
they can never be bigger than 1.
But this kind of makes sense because x for
this example is the picture of a cat,
then you want that output probability
to be as big as possible.
So more generally, what this loss function
does is it looks at whatever is the ground
true class in your training set, and
it tries to make the corresponding
probability of that class
as high as possible.
If you're familiar with maximum
likelihood estimation statistics,
this turns out to be a form of
maximum likelyhood estimation.
But if you don't know what that means,
don't worry about it.
The intuition we just
talked about will suffice.
Now this is the loss on
a single training example.
How about the cost J on
the entire training set.
So, the class of setting of the parameters
and so on, of all the ways and
biases, you define that as
pretty much what you'd guess,
sum of your entire training
sets are the loss,
your learning algorithms predictions
are summed over your training samples.
And so,
what you do is use gradient descent in
order to try to minimize this class.
Finally, one more implementation detail.
Notice that because C is equal to 4,
y is a 4 by 1 vector, and
y hat is also a 4 by 1 vector.
So if you're using a vectorized
limitation, the matrix capital
Y is going to be y(1), y(2),
through y(m), stacked horizontally.
And so for example, if this example up
here is your first training example
then the first column of this matrix Y
will be 0 1 0 0 and then maybe the second
example is a dog, maybe the third example
is a none of the above, and so on.
And then this matrix Y will end up
being a 4 by m dimensional matrix.
And similarly, Y hat will be y
hat 1 stacked up horizontally
going through y hat m, so
this is actually y hat 1.
All the output on the first training
example then y hat will these 0.3,
0.2, 0.1, and 0.4, and so on.
And y hat itself will also be
4 by m dimensional matrix.
Finally, let's take a look at how you'd
implement gradient descent when you
have a softmax output layer.
So this output layer will compute z[L]
which is C by 1 in our example, 4 by 1 and
then you apply the softmax attribution
function to get a[L], or y hat.
And then that in turn allows
you to compute the loss.
So with talks about how to
implement the forward propagation
step of a neural network to get these
outputs and to compute that loss.
How about the back propagation step,
or gradient descent?
Turns out that the key step or
the key equation you need to initialize
back prop is this expression,
that the derivative with respect to
z at the loss layer, this turns out,
you can compute this y hat, the 4 by
1 vector, minus y, the 4 by 1 vector.
So you notice that all of these
are going to be 4 by 1 vectors when
you have 4 classes and
C by 1 in the more general case.
And so this going by our usual
definition of what is dz,
this is the partial derivative of
the class function with respect to z[L].
If you are an expert in calculus,
you can derive this yourself.
Or if you're an expert in calculus,
you can try to derive this yourself, but
using this formula will
also just work fine,
if you have a need to
implement this from scratch.
With this, you can then compute dz[L] and
then sort of start off the back prop
process to compute all the derivatives
you need throughout your neural network.
But it turns out that in this week's
primary exercise, we'll start to use one
of the deep learning program frameworks
and for those primary frameworks,
usually it turns out you just need to
focus on getting the forward prop right.
And so long as you specify it as a primary
framework, the forward prop pass,
the primary framework will
figure out how to do back prop,
how to do the backward pass for you.
So this expression is worth keeping in
mind for if you ever need to implement
softmax regression, or
softmax classification from scratch.
Although you won't actually need this
in this week's primary exercise because
the primary framework you use
will take care of this derivative
computation for you.
So that's it for softmax classification,
with it you can now implement learning
algorithms to characterized inputs
into not just one of two classes,
but one of C different classes.
Next, I want to show you some of the deep
learning programming frameworks which
can make you much more efficient in terms
of implementing deep learning algorithms.
Let's go on to the next
video to discuss that.